Request to modify a notification payload. (#24562)
backstage/backstage: beps/0001-notifications-system/README.md

- by an external system to request an action within an asynchronous task
- by a BE plugin to provide link to other part of the Backstage UI (i.e. to the Catalog)

> The extra is a flexible JSON like field, where an additional payload can be stored.

Reviewer: Yep I think we need this. It would be good to have a bit more clarity in who produces and consumes this though. Who owns the format of the extra fields and who is allowed to look at the data.

For example, fairly straightforward I think would be that a plugin that posts a notification can then use the extra information for customized rendering in the frontend. But are notification processors allowed to access that data for custom logic, and what are the stability guarantees of the data in that case?

Author: We would like to build a template, where stakeholders from technical platform teams could notify all affected feature teams what has been changed and which applications were affected, so teams have to take an action, they have a deadline for that, etc. Once the action by team has been done they mark it as completed. This way we can get rid of using emails, which sometimes include also more teams then needed.

Most of the fields which are currently in "notification" table perfectly fit this purpose, but some fields are missing (of course 😄 ) which we would like to store.

In some mid-term we would like to add some other notifications which comes from security point of view, and the template, number of fields are different from the first template. 

Therefore having a "notification" for our case should be flexible to support it. 

Maybe we can have something like this:

```
{
  "data": {
    "deadline": "01-06-2024",
    "affectedTeams": [
      "team1",
      "team2"
    ]
  },
  "schema": {
    "module": "central-hub-notification-module",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "deadline",
        "format": date,
        "optional": false
      },
      {
        "affectedTeams": string[]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This can be an indication which module can process an 'extra' field. 

If to think more globally, even one more field in the "Notification" or "NotificationPayload" object could be added, **module owner/source owner**, and only that module can retrieve this notification. 

So it's a matter of limiting the access only to "extra" field, or completely filtering out notifications based on custom notification module

Reviewer 2: How about adding a `notification.metadata` as `JsonValue | undefined` to the notification payload and saving that as JSON to the database? Also, I think this data should be available for the processors to modify/read as needed. The default processors (email/slack/...) from upstream probably don't know what to do with this data and should not care but custom processors can do their things with the data.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, absolutely as part of the `notificationPayload`.

> The metadata is a flexible JSON like field, where an additional payload can be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metadata is an opaque JSON field, where an additional payload can be stored. The format of this data is owned by the notification sender and is tied to the notification topic, i.e. notifications sent from the source source on the same topic should use a compatible metadata format. The primary purpose of this field is to allow for custom processing and rendering based on the additional metadata.
```

Suggesting to be a bit more strict about the format of the metadata field. Most likely it's enough to document the format/type, but I could also see it being useful to even have an adjacent metadata version field, or even allow for multiple metadata buckets of different types, e.g.

```ts
  metadata: Array<{
    type: string;
    value: JsonValue;
  }>
```

Over all I'd like us to be very careful about making sure that this data is easy to consume in an explicit way, while making it possible to evolve the data over time. If we go forward with the multiple metadata idea I'd event suggest that we move some of the existing fields into metadata, like icon, links, etc.

Reviewer 2: Additionally, we need some way for the other plugins to consume these notifications. Sure they can hook into the notifications signal but I am not sure if that's the proper way to distribute who wants which notification in the frontend.

Author: @Rugvip How about to use `metadata` as `JsonObject` for multiple multiple metadata buckets?
The problem with the array in this model that querying it with knex is not really supported.

It still can be the same idea, where we can say something like:

```
metadata: {
  link: {
     type: 'string',
     value: 'https://github.com/backstage/backstage'
  },
  age: {
     type: 'number',
     value: 30
  }
}
```

And this i also don't like as a user who will work with this. 

The more convenient way might be to have 2 fields: one `metadata` and another `metadataSchema`.
Then it will look like

"metadata"
```
{
  link: 'https://github.com/backstage/backstage',
  age: : 30,
}
```

"metadataSchema"
```
{
  link: 'string',
  age: 'number',
}
```

Completely agree that "link", "icon", "etc." can be moved to "metadata".

Author: @drodil Having a field "type" in notifications (could be an extra field in metadata as well) can help with filtering notifications per custom notification module.

Reviewer: @acierto PostgreSQL has excellent support for arrays - if you normalize the schema 😁, i.e. storing the metadata in a separate table.

With `type` I had something more strict in mind, things like `core.link`, `catalog.entity-ref`, `core.icon.v1`, etc.

Author: Ah ok, that what you have in mind, I was thinking to use `jsonb` as a type of field and for that I couldn't find a solution to query arrays.

Author: If to some up the idea:

We would like to have an extra table, i.e.
`notification_payalod_metadata` with columns:

type - string
value - jsonb
version - string

On code level side:

```
  metadata: Array<{
    type: string;
    value: JsonValue;
    version: string;
  }>
```

@Rugvip with having `type` more strict, do you mean that the types should have more context? 
As we can't/shouldn't validate the type content.

I see the last example as `core.icon.v1`, does that mean that you prefer to keep versioning in the type name instead of a separate field?

Reviewer: @acierto yes to all those things 😁
